This engine deals with files in two formats, both custom: '.scn', and '.msh'. A '.msh' file describes the geometry of a single object, while .scn describes a scene, including lights, meshes and a camera. Information on both formats is given below.

.msh
   - Generally similar to the Wavefront .msh format, but only supports triangles. Most .msh files will be readable if renamed to "___.scn", so long as each face is triangular.

   - Not the same as or compatible with the Orbiter 3D '.msh' format.

   - Lines beginning with 'v' describe vertices. They are in the format:
      v x y z
   where x, y, and z are floating point numbers describing the position of the vertex in global space.

   - Lines beginning with 'f' describe triangular faces. They are in the format:
      f i j k
   where i, j, and k are integers describing the corners of the triangle, by reference to the vertices defined in the same file. E.g., 'f 1 2 4' would refer to the triangle consisting of the first, second and fourth vertices defined in the file. The order of i, j and k is not important.

   - Any line not beginning with 'v' or 'f' is considered a comment.

   - An example; a .msh describing a 'bent parallelogram' (file contents enclosed in braces):
   {
      # example.msh
      # a a bent parallelogram

      # vertices:
      v 1.0 0.0 0.0
      v 0.0 1.0 0.0
      v 0.0 0.0 1.0
      v 0.0 0.0 -1.0

      # faces:
      f 1 3 4
      f 2 3 4
   }

.scn
   - There must be exactly one line beginning with 'c'; this line describes the position of the camera, in the format:
      c Px Py Pz Nx Ny Nz t s
   where:
   Px, Py, and Pz are floating point numbers describing the position of the camera's centre in global space
   Nx, Ny, Nz are floating point components of the camera's axis (the direction in which it is facing).
   t is a floating point number describing the counter-clockwise angle (in radians) by which the camera is rotated around its axis.
      This is defined such that when t = 0 the camera's local 'up' points towards the positive y-axis.
   s is a floating point number describing the scale of the camera - how many spatial units the camera can see (on its longest side if not square).

   - Lines beginning with 'o' describe material objects in the scene, in the format:
      o filename.msh r g b
   where:
   filename.msh is the filename of a valid .msh file (not enclosed in quotes). Path is relative to the .scn file.
   r, g, and b are integers in the range (0, 255) inclusive and describe the RGB components of the object's colour.

   - Lines beginning with 'l' describes a point light source, in the format:
      l x y z p
   where x, y, and z are floating point numbers describing the position of the light, and p is a floating point number describing the power of the light.

   - Any line not beginning with 'c', 'o' or 'l' is considered a comment.

   - An example; a .scn describing a scene containing a purple 'bent parallelogram' and one light source (file contents enclosed in braces).
   {
      # example.scn
      # a pretty scene

      # the object:
      o example.msh 128 0 255

      # camera:
      c 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.0 0.0 200.0

      # and one dim light behind the camera
      l 0.0 0.0 0.5 10.0
   }